[KANA-BOON's "Song of the Dead"]
[distant car horn honking]
[rain pattering]
[dog whimpers]
[whining]
[whimpering continues]
SHIZUKA'S FATHER:
Get rid of it.
- Huh?
SHIZUKA'S FATHER: What's the use
in taking in a sickly dog?
As my daughter you bear
the responsibility
to rise above your peers,
and in order to do that,
you must toss aside the weak.
Do not waste your time.
Only do what's needed
to succeed.
- [gasps, exhales]
SHIZUKA'S FATHER:
Unless the fate you want
is to end up on the street
like that filthy dog.
[indistinct chatter]
MAN: Are you serious?
KOSUGI: Attention, everyone!
Today we're welcoming Tendo
and his crew!
Let's celebrate!
So, cheers!
all: Cheers!
[gulping]
[exhales loudly]
Drink up your fill, everyone!
This is my way
of showing my appreciation
for all of ya
and the hard work you put into
the company every day!
- [gasping]
- Would I get infected
if I nailed a zombie?
- Are you seriously into
that zombie hipster chick?
- What can I say?
She's totally my type.
- Hey newbie, cant you see
I need a refill over here?
[AKIRA grunts]
Right!
[grunting]
- Hey, careful with that!
- AKIRA: I'm sorry.
- Pull it together, will ya?
- You're killin' our vibe!
- I'm sorry.
MAN: I thought you used
to be a working professional.
- I'm so sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
- [gasps]
KOSUGI: Eventually I'll be
the one that leads Japan
outta this!
- I'll fill up your glass.
- [laughing]
Huh?
Idiot!
I don't want my booze
from an old hag!
I like my drinks served
by young women,
not retirement home residents.
KOSUGI: Hey, you, there!
Come 'ere.
- [grunts]
[slurps]
Here, ditch the water
and quit acting like
you're too good
for this kind of stuff.
KOSUGI: Drink up.
Or are you saying
you're above accepting
a drink from your boss?
- [inhales sharply]
[gulping]
- Oh, you swallow
like a pro.
That's not the only thing
I want you to swallow.
[snarls]
[SHIZUKA exhales]
KOSUGI: You gotta start actin'
friendlier with me.
That or at least let me fondle
your tits now and then.
I mean, come on,
that's all women are good for,
anyway.
MAN: Hey, newbie...
- Hey, Tendo, come 'ere.
- Uh, right.
MAN: I haven't gotten
my fries yet.
KOSUGI: Hey, Tendo!
- Oh, uh, sorry!
[bottles rattling]
So, um, what do you need?
- What's it look like?
I'm out of booze!
- Oh, uh, right!
Sorry.
TENDO: Here you go.
[KOSUGI grunts]
Hmm?
It's empty!
Is this some kind
of joke to you?
Huh?
Who was kind enough
to fix up your car?
I took your buddy
and let you sleep in
the safety of our camp!
All you need to do is shut up
and follow my orders,
you lazy ingrate!
TENDO: I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
I'll bring you one right away!
SHIZUKA: "Need to succeed.
Need to win.
"In order to do
these things,
you need to obey me."
Even before I could talk,
my father kept telling
me what I need to do.
He did it so much that I thought
my name was Anita.
In his youth,
my father went
to the States alone
and within his lifetime
built a massive company.
He weathered the Lehman Bros.
collapse
to become a calculating
and cold-blooded financier
that even the Americans came
to fear,
and because I'm
his precious daughter,
perfection was always
expected of me.
YOUNG SHIZUKA: Sorry I have
to hide you up here.
If Daddy finds you,
he'll wanna kick you out.
[dog whimpers]
Oh, is that all you can say?
Okay, then, I guess I'll have
to name you Roo.
[dog whimpers]
YOUNG SHIZUKA: What's wrong?
You're not hungry?
You haven't eaten.
Are you not feeling well?
[sniffing]
[chewing]
[giggles]
[dog panting]
[groans]
Huh?
[SHIZUKA groans]
Morning, Roo.
[dog yapping]
Are you feeling better?
Oh, thank...
Thank goodness.
[whimpers]
I'm so glad.
I'm so glad, Roo!
[shouts]
Hey, now!
Calm down!
SHIZUKA'S FATHER: You have your
sights set on becoming a doctor?
There's a high risk
of many lawsuits
and they don't make
enough money.
What's the point of doing it?
Doctors and lawyers are puppets
for people like us.
SHIZUKA'S FATHER:
You are above them,
so act like it.
- [whimpers]
But I--
- We're done talking now.
- [gasps]
- Oh, and regarding
your belongings in the attic,
I contacted the Humane Society
and had them put it down.
[clock ticks]
- Huh?
- Who do you have to thank
for this life of luxury here
in this household, Shizuka?
All you need to do is shut up
and obey me like any
good daughter would.
- [crying]
SHIZUKA'S FATHER: What you need
to do is finish what you've
started, Shizuka.
You don't need to hang around
with people that
are beneath you.
There's absolutely no need
to date that boy.
Marriage is simply a means
for peers to reproduce.
SHIZUKA: Need, need, need, need.
Shut up, already!
But if I don't obey his orders,
then I can't survive
here.
I need to obey
his every word.
KOSUGI: Tendo!
What the hell do you think
you're doing
to my precious goods,
you idiot?
I guess you'll just have
to work tomorrow
and over the weekend
to finish it up.
[AKIRA whimpers]
But you promised today
was my last day!
KOSUGI: Hey!
- [whimpers]
KOSUGI: You waste of food!
Do you know how many losses
I've incurred because
of your incompetence?
Of course you don't know!
A slow, dim-witted,
stupid, lazy wimp like you
creates losses just
by merely existing!
Your breathing is a waste
of resources!
You could work here
your entire life
and it wouldn't be enough!
- [cackling maniacally]
KOSUGI: But you know what,
Tendo?
That's one of the things I find
so charming about you.
- [gasps]
AKIRA: Chief?
- The reason I'm so harsh
with you is because I see
the potential that lies
within you.
So stay.
AKIRA: Huh?
Uh, but...
KOSUGI: Think about it,
Tendo.
There's nothing left,
so what's driving you
to go back out into
a dangerous world like that?
Having freedom is tough,
you know.
You gotta make all
the decisions yourself,
like what to eat,
where to sleep,
and when to take a crap.
I mean, try thinking about
that all the time.
It's not easy.
It's enough to drive you crazy.
Tendo, honestly, I don't want
for you to end up that way,
which is why I'll tell you what
to do.
KOSUGI: Listen to me
and you won't need
to think for yourself
ever again.
To be honest, I'm kinda jealous
of the chance you're gettin'.
So put your hopes
and dreams aside
and park yourself here.
All you need to do
is follow my orders
and I promise you'll have
a bright future ahead of you.
SHIZUKA'S FATHER: Shizuka,
you see all
of those poor people out there?
They're there because they lived
how they wanted to.
You're different
from those people because you
know how
to put your wants aside,
listen to me,
follow all of my orders,
and do only what I need you
to do.
As my daughter,
do not become an embarrassment.
Are you listening?
I'm saying this
for your benefit.
SHIZUKA: My benefit?
You do this for yourself.
- All right!
Bring on the booze!
- Don't stop until you're
done carrying all those boxes!
- Uh, 'kay.
- [groans lightly]
- [grunts]
Huh?
[chuckles]
SHIZUKA: Good grief.
You're such a weird guy.
[gasps]
[truck engine rumbling]
MAN: There we go.
Nice!
Not a bad haul for a day's worth
of work, huh?
That being said,
you ever notice Kosugi
never helps with any
of the dangerous runs we do?
- Quiet!
Just be grateful
we don't get treated
like laborers like the others.
- [groans]
Sorry.
MAN 2: Hey, did you close
the door?
- MAN: Crap!
- We don't need zombies gettin'
in the truck!
- Enough said!
[grunts]
MAN 2: Hurry up so we can go!
MAN: I'm comin'!
- [groaning]
- The two days are at an end.
As promised, the three of us
will be taking our leave now.
- You did this for me?
I'm sorry.
But our time here's over.
AKIRA: Uh, actually,
about that.
I--I think I'm gonna stay here
and keep workin' under
the chief like I've been doing,
you know?
- [gasps]
KENCHO: You gotta be kidding me!
- [snickers]
- It's just it's dangerous
out there
and I'm not really cut out
to survive the apocalypse,
and the chief said
if I stay behind and help out,
he'll look after me.
- Akira, what's wrong?
What the hell happened?
Akira!
- [groaning]
KENCHO: Akira!
- Seems Tendo enjoys his job.
And why wouldn't he when he
has everything he needs here?
- Very well, then.
If that's your decision,
we'll be leaving here
on our own.
- Huh?
- Let's go, Kencho.
- Hey, wait!
Hold on!
[groans]
We can't leave him!
- Why not?
If he wants to stay,
let him.
- It's just I need
to repay the chief
for everything that he's done
for me.
AKIRA: You know,
in order to do that,
I need to keep working here
for him, so...
- Need, need, need, need.
Just shut up!
- [gasps]
SHIZUKA: Akira,
seeing as how we'll probably
never meet again,
let me leave you with
some words of wisdom.
That man who is doing everything
in his power to manipulate you,
do you have any idea what
he's really after?
- Huh?
- It's obvious he wants
to dominate you--
control every aspect
of your life.
SHIZUKA: Your free will is yours
and yours alone, Akira.
Your freedom to choose
your own path in life,
the self respect you need
to live your life,
your soul,
your pride...
He wants you to abandon all
of those.
That man has no self esteem
and he'll never be satisfied.
He'll keep putting others down
in order
to make himself seem bigger
to the people he controls
around him.
Can't you see?
That pathetic man
will do anything
to assert himself
and get a brief sense
of fulfillment by demeaning you.
Until today,
I was no different from you.
But you were the one
who finally opened my eyes!
I'm done taking orders.
I'm making my own choices!
Do you need to leave?
Do you need to stay?
With the way the world
is right now,
no one can be certain of what
the right decision to make is.
Even so,
I know what decision I'm making!
There's no doubt in my mind.
I'm leaving this place
and getting away
from this disgusting
jackass as soon as possible!
- [grunts]
- [exhales]
- I tell ya,
this is why women
are troublesome.
Once they go into hysterics,
there's no use talkin' to 'em.
KOSUGI: Right, everyone?
[all grunting]
- What's it gonna be, Akira?
It's your choice to make.
You're not a machine
or a zombie.
You're still human,
aren't you?
Tell me what you want.
Well, Akira?
- [gasping]
[gasps]
KOSUGI: How long are you gonna
keep spoutin' nonsense?
Give me that!
- [gasps]
KOSUGI: Who cares about what
you want to do?
You don't need this!
- [gasping]
[uplifting music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[gasps]
[gasping]
[both grunting]
[AKIRA gasping]
- [gasps]
KOSUGI: Wh--What do you think
you're doing?
Who--who gave you permission
to retaliate?
AKIRA: Chief...
I'm thankful.
You have taken care
of me in my time of need.
But this is where
we part ways.
I want nothing
to do with you.
.And I hope to never see
your face again!
- [groaning]
- [chuckles]
- You still owe me,
and you owe me a lot!
- I won't make it up to you!
Sorry about that, chief!
KOSUGI: That's irresponsible
of you!
AKIRA: My apologies!
KOSUGI: I helped you
in your time of need!
AKIRA: My apologies!
- You'll come to regret this.
The moment you set foot outside
the safety of this camp,
you'll be nothin'
but zombie fodder!
KOSUGI: Mark my words!
AKIRA: Hey, it's fine by me.
It's better than being worked
like a zombie
and not do the things
I wanna do!
MAN: Hey, check it out!
The supply
gathering team's back!
We pulled in a large haul today,
boss!
[snickers]
Come on over and check this out.
You're not gonna believe
how much stuff we go--
[screams]
[all gasping]
[all yelling]
- Calm down!
It's just one zombie!
Just stay cool and and grab--
- It's now or never!
- Wait!
- I don't wanna be eaten alive!
[shouting]
[metal crashing]
[zombies roaring]
- [shouting]
- [panicked screaming]
MAN: Thank you,
thank you!
AKIRA: Kencho!
[both gasping]
AKIRA: Shizuka!
- We're fine over here!
- Grab my hand!
Hurry!
- [screaming]
- [zombie grunts]
KENCHO: Dammit!
Dammit!
I'm not gonna be able
to save them all!
[KOSUGI screaming]
- [gasps]
Stay back!
Turn back!
Keep away from me,
you hideous freaks of nature!
- [breathing heavily]
Chief!
[gasping]
AKIRA: The food truck.
[exhales]
[inhales deeply]
[grunts]
Hey, delivery team!
I have an idea!
Can I count on you to help?
[KOSUGI panting]
I'm not built for running!
[KOSUGI grunts]
[groaning]
[screaming]
[gasping]
KOSUGI: Tendo?
- Chief Kosugi!
Now's our chance!
Hurry up and get over here!
- You're kidding.
Why's he helping out
that scumbag?
KENCHO: Akira!
What the hell?
I thought you wanted nothing
to do with that jerk!
- I don't, but...
Standing by while
someone's about
to get eaten alive by
zombies isn't something that's
on
my bucket list!
[both breathing heavily]
Do it!
[engine revving]
[zombie groaning]
[both gasping]
[all chuckling]
MAN: We're
counting on you!
AKIRA: Right!
Ready?
Let's go!
[KOSUGI gasps]
Let's go?
Hold on, we're not gonna jump
from here, are we?
- One, two, three!
[both screaming]
[zombies roaring]
- [whimpering]
- [gasping]
KENCHO: Akira!
[cackling]
Amazing!
MAN: Good job out there, newbie.
MAN 2: That was incredible!
MAN 3: Oh, thank you!
- [laughing]
Well, I only pulled
it off thanks
to your help.
KENCHO: Ah, don't be so modest.
AKIRA: Oh, Shizuka!
That was close,
but we pulled through all right!
- Good grief.
It's just like you...
To always do something crazy.
- It was nothin'.
- Uh, that wasn't a compliment.
- Huh?
- Oh.
[both laughing]
[KOSUGI laughing]
As expected from
a loyal subordinate of mine!
He was a fine example,
wasn't he?
You should all take after Tendo
and from now on be--
MAN: Yeah, sorry, Kosugi.
- Huh?
- But I'm done workin'
for you,
so consider this my resignation.
- KOSUGI: What?
- You made us do all
the hard work
while you sit around
and do nothing!
- You're terrible.
- And, uh,
that newbie was a better leader
than you have ever been.
[KOSUGI stammering]
- Yeah, I think it's safe
to say we've more
than paid our dues by now.
- It's about time we pack up
and get a move on.
- Thanks for everything, though!
MAN: We're the ones who brought
this stuff in,
so we're gonna haul it out.
- Wait, wait!
MAN: I wanna go somewhere warm.
- Don't go!
KOSUGI: You guys, wait!
- Let's go.
KOSUGI: I treated you all well,
didn't I?
Wait, don't go!
- [snickers]
- KOSUGI: Wait!
Don't leave me here!
[crying]
[engines revving]
SHIZUKA: Seriously?
You really don't remember any
of it?
- I kinda blacked out.
Around Chief Kosugi,
I lost myself, you know?
Like I wasn't there.
[groans]
That said,
manual labor really sucks.
Maybe I'm not cut out for it.
Nah, it's starting
to really feel like--
like I'll never find
the right job.
- So what?
It's not like there's any rush
to get a job right now.
- Huh?
- Influencers,
esports athletes,
drone pilots...
Cool new jobs are created all
of the time,
ones we couldn't imagine
100 years ago.
SHIZUKA: We don't know
what tomorrow will bring
in this world,
or what kind of jobs there
will be.
It's anyone's
guess, really.
So do whatever you wanna do now.
Just make sure you enjoy it
and savor every second of it.
Eventually, one day,
one of those things may become
a job that only you can do.
- [grunts]
[Shiyui's
"Happiness of the Dead"]
AKIRA: You're right!
[upbeat music]